The Minimax algorithm is a strategy used in two-player games where one of the players is a machine (or AI). The idea is that the machine plays optimally to maximize its advantage, while the opponent (in this case, the human player) tries to minimize the machine's advantage. Here’s how this algorithm works in the context of playing against a machine:

Decision Tree:

The game is represented as a tree where each node represents a state of the game.
The branches of the tree represent the possible moves from that state.
Simulation of Moves:

Player's Turn: When it’s the human player’s turn, the algorithm simulates all possible moves the player could make.
Machine’s Turn: When it’s the machine’s turn, the algorithm simulates all possible moves the machine could make.
Evaluation Function:

An evaluation function is used to assign a value to each state of the game.
This function measures how favorable a state is for the machine (if it’s the machine’s turn) or for the human player (if it’s the player’s turn).
Recursion:

The algorithm explores all possible moves recursively.
When it’s the machine’s turn, it seeks to maximize the value it can achieve (in other words, the highest value it can reach).
When it’s the human player’s turn, it seeks to minimize the maximum value the machine can achieve.
Termination Condition:

Recursion stops when a terminal node of the game is reached (e.g., the end of the game) or when a predefined depth is reached.
At these terminal nodes, the evaluation function is used to determine the value of the final state.
Propagation of Values:

Values from terminal nodes are propagated up the tree.
At nodes where it’s the machine’s turn, the maximum value is chosen (the machine picks the move that gives the best result).
At nodes where it’s the human player’s turn, the minimum value is chosen (the machine considers the worst result the player could force).
Choosing the Best Move:

After evaluating all possible branches of the tree, the machine chooses the move that offers the best possible outcome, considering the optimal strategy of the human player.
Intuitive Example
Suppose you are playing chess against a machine. On each turn, the machine considers all possible moves it can make. Then, for each of those moves, it evaluates how the human player (you) might respond.